## Description

Identifies and Manages the Inventory of Information Assets - The entity identifies, inventories, classifies, and manages information assets.

Restricts Logical Access - Logical access to information assets, including hardware, data (at-rest, during processing, or in transmission), software, administrative authorities, mobile devices, output, and offline system components is restricted through the use of access control software and rule sets.

Identifies and Authenticates Users - Persons, infrastructure and software are identified and authenticated prior to accessing information assets, whether locally or remotely.

Considers Network Segmentation - Network segmentation permits unrelated portions of the entity's information system to be isolated from each other.

Manages Points of Access - Points of access by outside entities and the types of data that flow through the points of access are identified, inventoried, and managed. The types of individuals and systems using each point of access are identified, documented, and managed.

Restricts Access to Information Assets - Combinations of data classification, separate data structures, port restrictions, access protocol restrictions, user identification, and digital certificates are used to establish access control rules for information assets.

Manages Identification and Authentication - Identification and authentication requirements are established, documented, and managed for individuals and systems accessing entity information, infrastructure and software.

Manages Credentials for Infrastructure and Software - New internal and external infrastructure and software are registered, authorized, and documented prior to being granted access credentials and implemented on the network or access point. Credentials are removed and access is disabled when access is no longer required or the infrastructure and software are no longer in use.

Uses Encryption to Protect Data - The entity uses encryption to supplement other measures used to protect data-at-rest, when such protections are deemed appropriate based on assessed risk.

Protects Encryption Keys - Processes are in place to protect encryption keys during generation, storage, use, and destruction.