To obtain the latest version of the official guide, please visit https://www.nist.gov/cyberframework/framework.

## Overview

NIST Cybersecurity Framework is a set of best practices, standards, and
recommendations that help an organization improve its cybersecurity measures.
The framework is composed of five functions that organize the basic
cybersecurity activities at their highest level.

## Functions

### Identify

Develop an organizational understanding to manage cybersecurity risk to
systems, people, assets, data, and capabilities.

The activities in the Identify Function are foundational for effective use of
the Framework. Understanding the business context, the resources that support
critical functions, and the related cybersecurity risks enables an organization
to focus and prioritize its efforts, consistent with its risk management
strategy and business needs.  Examples of outcome Categories within this
Function include: Asset Management; Business Environment; Governance; Risk
Assessment; and Risk Management Strategy.

### Protect

Develop and implement appropriate safeguards to ensure delivery of critical
services.

The Protect Function supports the ability to limit or contain the impact of a
potential cybersecurity event. Examples of outcome Categories within this
Function include: Identity Management and Access Control; Awareness and
Training; Data Security; Information Protection Processes and Procedures;
Maintenance; and Protective Technology.

### Detect

Develop and implement appropriate activities to identify the occurrence of a
cybersecurity event.

The Detect Function enables timely discovery of cybersecurity events. Examples
of outcome Categories within this Function include: Anomalies and Events;
Security Continuous Monitoring; and Detection Processes

### Respond

Develop and implement appropriate activities to take action regarding a
detected cybersecurity incident.

The Respond Function supports the ability to contain the impact of a potential
cybersecurity incident. Examples of outcome Categories within this Function
include: Response Planning; Communications; Analysis; Mitigation; and
Improvements.

### Recover

Develop and implement appropriate activities to maintain plans for resilience
and to restore any capabilities or services that were impaired due to a
cybersecurity incident.

The Recover Function supports timely recovery to normal operations to reduce
the impact from a cybersecurity incident. Examples of outcome Categories within
this Function include: Recovery Planning; Improvements; and Communications.
